If your games keep stuttering and you
get low FPS or FPS drops on your PC or
laptop, this video is the one for you.
I'm going to show you how to boost FPS,
fix stutters, and FPS drops by using a
free Windows optimizer to optimize your
Windows PC without any BS. So, let's get
right into it. But before getting into
this video, I just want to show you guys
a little something. Initially, I was
going to go ahead and make a video on
this LL Tweaks free utility. However,
when I went ahead to download their free
utility, well, as you can see, this is
what I got. And judging by their
responses and their overall community
response to this free utility, I can
safely say that it's not only garbage,
it's also pretty much a malware. And
since I am ranking every single free
Windows optimizer, I'm going to go ahead
and put the LL tweaks free utility into
the garbage tier, making it the very
first entry there. So, now we can move
on to this video. But today's video is
going to be about the Sinus free utility
or their optimizations. This was
actually recommended by a subscriber in
the last video. So, I'm going to be
benchmarking it to see if it's really
any good or if it's just the same as any
other. I tried to download their free
tweaking utility, but the issue that I
run into is that if I try to extract it,
uh, well, yeah, I get this error and
nothing seems to work here. So, I did
the next best thing and downloaded all
of their optimizations manually, mainly
the CPU optimizations, the Fortnite
optimizations, and the Valerant
optimizations since these are both of
the games that I'll be benchmarking. If
you guys want to follow along with me in
this video, I'm going to leave a link to
all three of these packs inside of the
description. So, go ahead and download
it from there. And let's explore this
pack together, shall we? Starting off
with CPU optimizations. enabling all CPU
cores. It wants us to go inside of this
shortcut, which is going to go ahead and
open up the system configuration. Now,
what they want you to do is go inside of
boot, go into the advanced options,
check this number of processes, set it
to max, but I'm going to call it
because this actually does
nothing. So, I'm going to uncheck this,
hit okay, and apply because this is a
really useless tweak. This unlocking of
the number of processors is only for
testing purposes in order to limit the
processors on boot and it has nothing to
do with the actual Windows performance
or the performance of your games. So,
let's see what they got other than this.
Moving on to unpark all CPU cores. Of
course, this one is a highly recommended
one and I always do it myself. So, what
I'm going to do is unpack all, hit okay,
apply, okay, and now we can close out of
this. Moving back into the pack, disable
HPE. So, it wants us to open up the
device manager. I'm going to go ahead
and click on open and then we can scroll
down until we get the high precision
event timer. I'm going to right click on
it and disable device. Hit yes. And now
we have successfully disabled the HPET.
Moving on to registry tweaks for the
CPU. If I right click on it and click on
edit, you see that it does the basic
tweaks such as system responsiveness,
GPU and CPU priority in terms of the
gaming profiles. And then there is the
processor scheduling which sets the
Win32 priority to 26 basically focusing
on foreground apps. So, nothing too
fancy, but some good stuff. So, I'm
going to go ahead and definitely double
click on it, hit yes, and then hit okay.
Power run isn't really needed for this.
And the second one is the timer fix.bat.
If I go ahead and edit this, we can see
that it disables all of those enhanced
timer precision and all of that stuff.
So, we're going to be going ahead and
running it as admin. Let's move on to
the import power plan, and it reduces
CPU cycles. So, for this one, what I'm
going to do is right click on the power
run, run it as admin, and then I'm going
to simply go ahead and drag it onto
here. Then click on run file. As you can
see, it wants me to open it. I'm going
to click on run. And then it should
download and import their system power
plan. It's been downloaded. Let's open
up the power options. And going into the
power options, it was automatically
applied. Sign as power plan. You're
officially on the best plan. That's what
they say, not me. So, let's close out of
this. Let's move back and open up the
disable startup apps. So, it basically
wants me to go ahead and disable any of
the startup apps simply from the task
manager right here. As you can see, I
have disabled pretty much all of them
except for this one. Let's disable this
as well. And that's it. Now, we can
close out of this, move back, and the
final one is the CPU BIOS optimizations.
And for this one, they want you to buy
their service, which I don't recommend.
So, let's move on to the second pack,
and that is Fortnite optimizations.
First one are the Fortnite settings, and
they just want you to apply the best
Fortnite and Epic Games Launcher
settings, which I believe all of you
have already applied, including me.
Let's skip this and move on to the power
plan which is once again the same one
that we have already imported. So let's
move on to visual tweaks. Let's open up
the visual performance tweaks. And from
here as you can see I have pretty much
applied the best settings already. You
can go ahead and disable a few more if
you want but to be honest this does not
make that much of a difference. I mean I
have tested with the best for
performance as well as this one. There's
a very minor difference and that too on
just the very low-end PCs. So, I
wouldn't really recommend unchecking
anything other than all of these ones
that I have unchecked. Then hit okay.
And let's move on to the registry
tweaks. So, this does say Windows 11
registry tweaks, but I'm sure they work
for Windows 10 as well. So, let's see
what's inside of them. And judging from
here, most of these are just the app
permissions, some searches, as well as a
bit of mouse and the same words for the
Win32 priority. And yeah, you can go
ahead and read through all of this.
These are pretty much all of the basic
tweaks and nothing is suspicious or
anything that I wouldn't really
recommend. So, we're going to close out
of this. Double click on it, hit yes,
and hit okay. Let's move on to the
Nvidia control panel. Well,
unfortunately, I have an AMD GPU, so
this isn't really any useful to me.
Skipping this, let's move on to MSI
utility. So, with this one, those of you
who don't know what to do, simply right
click on it, run it as admin, and once
this opens up, just go ahead and make
sure to find your graphics card, then
check the MSI box. Set the interrupt
priority to high, hit apply, and close
out of this. And that's all. Moving
back, the final one are once again the
BIOS settings. And this time, we
actually have a document inside of here.
So, if you are an Intel user, go to your
BIOS and change all of these settings.
And for the AMD Ryzen users, simply go
ahead and use these settings. And yeah,
these settings are actually pretty good.
I do highly recommend that you go ahead
and follow all of these. Go into your
BIOS. I cannot record my BIOS and then
come back to follow along with me or you
can basically go ahead and leave them
for the end. That's it for the Fortnite
optimizations. Let's move on to Valerant
optimizations. [music] First thing
inside of here are the Valerant
optimized settings which of course you
may have already applied. If you
haven't, go ahead and watch a video on
them because we're not going to be
covering those inside of this video.
Then the custom power plan. I assume
it's the same one. Once again, let's
skip this registry tweaks. Let's see if
there are any others or if it's the same
thing once again. So going through this,
I'm pretty sure that it's the same thing
once again with just a bit of different
name. So yeah, I'm not going to be going
ahead and applying it once again. I
don't want to rewrite those ones over
and over again. So I'm just going to go
ahead and skip this one. And a lot of
these have already been covered in the
previous ones. So I'm just going to go
ahead and skip to uninstalling Game Bar.
So I'm going to right click on it, click
on edit, and as you can see, it's just
going to go ahead and remove all of the
Xbox apps. So, if you don't really use
them or need them, you can go ahead and
remove all of those by simply right
clicking on it and running it as admin.
So, let's go back and move on to network
settings. I'm going to open up the
device manager once again. Let's go on
to network adapters. Right click on your
adapter and go to properties. Under the
power management, make sure that all of
these are unchecked. Then, under the
advanced, the only things that you want
to change are this ARP offload auto
disable gigabit. This one, this one.
Simply go ahead and copy the values that
I have. And then you want to go ahead
and do this one. Receive buffers. And
that's basically it. Then click on okay.
Your network may restart. And you can
now close out of this. Moving on to the
mouse optimizations. So both of these
will basically help with mouse
acceleration and fixing the mouse input.
So yeah, we're going to be going ahead
and applying these. Running it as admin.
And once this one is done, we can move
on to applying this one. And yeah, let's
move on to the startup apps once more.
And this time along with task manager,
they also gave us auto runs. Since we
have already used the task manager
option, let's go ahead and run the auto
runs as admin. So this, if you don't
know, is actually an advanced app that
is used to disable all of the startup
apps, any schedule tasks, any services,
whatever that you want to disable from
starting up with your Windows. So for
this one, I recommend going into the
loon and then unchecking anything that
you don't want to start with your
Windows, such as this, this, and I have
pretty much everything else that is
unchecked. Then we can move on to the
schedule tasks and do the same thing
inside of here. And finally, go inside
of services and make sure that you go
ahead and disable only those services
that you know you won't be using. And
once you're done with that, you can
close out of this and we can move on to
the BIOS settings, which are once again
the same settings. And finally, they've
got the advanced plus hidden
optimizations and well, of course, they
want you to buy their service, which
once again I do not recommend because I
have looked at their services and they
are pretty damn expensive. If you're
going to be wasting the money, go ahead
and waste it on something that I don't
know, maybe you won't regret. But yeah,
that's it for all of these
optimizations. Let me restart my PC and
then I'll hit you with the benchmarks.
So, moving on to the benchmarks. In
Fortnite, the average FPS went from 220s
to 210s, meaning it decreased by 10 FPS,
while the 1% lows went from 150s to
140s, making it the worst optimization
for Fortnite. Moving on to Valerin, the
average FPS went from 230s to above 300,
while the 1% lows also improved, going
from 140s to 180s, which is pretty
impressive. So, where do I put this?
Judging from its performance in both
Fortnite and Valerant, well, I'll have
to put it into the very low good tier. I
was actually going to go ahead and put
it into the m tier until I saw its
improvements in Valerant. So, I wouldn't
really recommend this to Fortnite users.
For them, I'll put it in the garbage
tier. But then for the Valerant users, I
would recommend using this. So, if you
play Valerant, then go down into the
description, download the pack, and use
it. But if you want to get even more FPS
inside of your games, then go ahead and
check this video out right